[[!meta title="How can I sign up for Scripts if my locker is not publicly listable?"]]
***Note: We strongly recommend that most users keep the default
permissions that their account came with (which includes a
publicly-listable home directory). The advice below is intended for
advanced users who are sure they wish to block public listing of their
home directory, and makes it much more difficult for the Scripts Team
and other support groups around MIT to debug user problems. Please
carefully consider whether the difficulty you may experience when
requesting assistance in the future is outweighed by the benefit of
preventing your locker from being listed.***\
\
\
 If you have removed permissions for your locker to be publicly listable
and you try to sign up for scripts.mit.edu, you will receive the
following error message:\
 \
\

* * * * *

\

` ERROR: The scripts servers cannot verify the permissions of the locker YOURLOCKER. This is probably because your locker is not publicly listable. You can remedy this signup problem and make your locker publicly listable by running “fs setacl /mit/YOURLOCKER system:anyuser l” (that’s a lowercase L at the end).  NOTE: This will make it possible for the public (including anyone viewing http://web.mit.edu/YOURLOCKER) to see the names of your files and the list of people who have access to them, though it will not cause the contents of your files to be publicly readable.  If you are unwilling to have your locker listable by the public, please contact scripts@mit.edu for information about other ways to work around the problem.`\

* * * * *

\
 The AFS kernel module on the scripts.mit.edu servers prevents the
permissions that are granted to daemon.scripts (which is the AFS
username that the scripts servers authenticate with) from being
exercised except by the scripts.mit.edu user corresponding to the
locker. This means that only the scripts user for your locker can see or
write files in your locker that daemon.scripts has AFS permissions on.
This is the basic way that we isolate users from each other.\
 \
\
\
 Unfortunately, that means that until your user has been created by the
signup process, if your locker is only listable to daemon.scripts, the
scripts servers still cannot read it. The usual way to work around this
is to run ‘fs setacl /mit/YOURLOCKER system:anyuser l’ if you’re willing
to have your locker be world-listable. For the rare case where someone
is unwilling to have their locker publicly listable, there is one
alternative involving granting one of the site-defined capital letter
AFS permissions (“E”) to daemon.scripts that tells the kernel module to
allow our signup user to exercise the daemon.scripts permissions. We
don’t generally recommend this because it’s fairly confusing and makes
debugging problems rather difficult.\
 \
\
\
 If you are absolutely certain that you need this configuration, you
should grant the “l” and “E” permissions to daemon.scripts by running a
command like this on Athena:\
 \
\
 `athena% fs setacl /mit/YOURLOCKER daemon.scripts lE`\
 \
(That’s a lowercase “L” and an uppercase “E”.)
