[[!meta title="How can I install Python modules in my locker?"]]
First, note that many Python modules are already installed on
scripts.mit.edu, and we’re generally pretty willing to install
generally-useful software globally; email us at
[scripts@mit.edu](mailto:scripts@mit.edu) to ask. This has the advantage
that you won’t have to worry about keeping the packages up to date; in
some cases, using out-of-date modules could lead to security
vulnerabilities in your site.

Sometimes, however, you may want to install a specific Python module
from [PyPI](http://pypi.python.org/) in your locker, say because you
want to modify it or because you need a different version than what’s
installed globally. This is pretty straight forward. First, you need to
create the directory to install into and give scripts.mit.edu permission
to it. From an Athena prompt, do the following, where lockername is the
name of your locker:

    % add consult
    % mkdir -p /mit/lockername/.local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/
    % fsr sa /mit/lockername/.local/lib/python2.7/site-packages/ \
        daemon.scripts write

Then, to install a package, [ssh into scripts.mit.edu as your
locker](/faq/41/) and run

    $ easy_install --user -Z packagename

where packagename is the package you want to install. To upgrade
something you already have installed, simply do:

    $ easy_install --user -Z -U packagename

These packages will be automatically available to Python scripts you run
on scripts.mit.edu.

Note that because the modules are tied to the minor version of Python
they were built with, you will need to install the modules again if the
system Python is upgraded. Be sure to add yourself to the
[scripts-announce mailing
list](http://mailman.mit.edu/mailman/listinfo/scripts-announce) so you
will be notified about such transitions.
