[[!meta title="Is scripts.mit.edu appropriate for my site?"]]
In general, scripts.mit.edu is well-suited for dynamic sites (including
blogs and wikis, as well as custom apps) for individuals and small
groups, but its volunteer-run nature may make it poorly suited for
larger groups (such as labs). IS&T has a page detailing other [options
for making a website at
MIT](http://kb.mit.edu/confluence/pages/viewpage.action?pageId=152584629),
which can help you decide where to host your website.

scripts.mit.edu is run by volunteers from [SIPB](http://sipb.mit.edu/),
MIT’s student computing group. It is neither run nor supported by IS&T.
We provide best-effort support via email at scripts@mit.edu, but we
can’t guarantee that we will be able to help with your problem or that
we will have any particular response time, even for urgent requests.
Please keep this in mind before using scripts.mit.edu for a
mission-critical application.

scripts.mit.edu uses multiple servers for load-balancing and
reliability, and has historically maintained very high uptime. However,
we can make no guarantees about future uptime, and there are many Athena
services outside our control whose outages can impact scripts.mit.edu
sites.

One particular concern around around the best-effort support policy
involves security issues. Scripts policy when we discover that a scripts
account has been compromised and is running exploit code is to disable
the account. We will only reenable it once the account owners confirm
they have fixed the site, and a Scripts maintainer has verified that the
exploit code and original vulnerability have been fixed. This can
sometimes take a large amount of maintainer time, and therefore there
may be significant delay before our volunteers have a chance to reenable
the site. As a result, if your site being down for at least several days
after a security issue is prohibitive, you should use a different
hosting solution.
