[[!meta title="How do I debug my scripts?"]]
Unfortunately, scripts.mit.edu does not support per-user error logs
(yet!), so debugging a recalcitrant CGI script may be a little
difficult. While the Scripts team hopes to add error logging in the near
future, here are some immediate ways you can convince your scripts to
give you more information:

-   You can view error logs in real time using the ‘logview’ command on
    a Scripts server. Note that you need to be SSH’ed into the server
    that is serving your website, and not necessarily scripts.mit.edu
    server. You can determine what server you are being load-balanced to
    by checking the bottom of http://scripts.mit.edu and looking for
    “You are currently connected to XXX.mit.edu” server. This will not
    display all errors: in particular, if an error message spans
    multiple lines, you will only see the first line, and error messages
    with no data associated with your locker will also be hidden.

-   If you have a PHP script that is failing with no error output, you
    likely have error reporting turned off. Open or create a php.ini
    file in the same directory as the script, and in it ensure that
    “display\_errors = on” and “error\_reporting = E\_ALL \^ E\_NOTICE”.
    This will cause errors to be displayed on the web page.

-   If you have some script that you know is writing information to
    stderr that you want to see, you can often run it directly from the
    command line via SSH to scripts and see if it outputs anything
    interesting. Nota bene: the configuration of the command line may be
    subtly different than that invoked from the web, for example, php
    from the command line will not load a php.ini file in the directory;
    you’ll need to manually add it with -c

-   If your FastCGI script is not working and you’re getting error
    messages like:

        [Fri Oct 29 20:31:04 2010] [notice] mod_fcgid: process
          /afs/athena.mit.edu/contrib/scripts/web_scripts/index.fcgi(15116)
          exit(communication error), terminated by calling exit(), return code: 121

    this probably means your index.fcgi is lacking the executable bit.
    You can set it using `chmod a+x index.fcgi`.


