[[!meta title="Can my group obtain a shorter URL?"]]
If you have a reasonable reason for wanting a short URL (in specific
technical jargon, a DNS CNAME pointing to the script server and a
corresponding virtual host configuration on the server), you can request
one using our hostname management system. Note that this step is
absolutely not required to use scripts.mit.edu; the default
LOCKER.scripts.mit.edu URL is usually sufficient.

There are several types of hostname you can request:

-   By default, you are assigned a LOCKER.scripts.mit.edu host name; you
    can request arbitrary subdomains of this address (for example,
    blog.LOCKER.scripts.mit.edu). These host names are activated
    instantaneously, and do not require approval.

-   If you own an external hostname (e.g. example.com), you can point it
    at the Scripts server. Configure your hostname with your registrar
    or DNS hosting as an A record for 18.181.0.46, then add your
    hostname using the online interface as usual. Alternatively, you can
    configure it as a CNAME for “scripts-vhosts.mit.edu.”, which is less
    cryptic but interferes with using your hostname with mail\_scripts,
    and also doesn’t work for top-level URLs (i.e., you won’t be able to
    do it for example.com, but you could for www.example.com).

-   For high visibility websites, you can request a .mit.edu hostname.
    You can use the stella command on Athena or [via the
    web](https://scripts-cert.mit.edu/~geofft/stella.php) to check if
    the hostname you would like is available. You can also transfer
    hostnames that you or your group owns. These host names must be
    manually approved, and we recommend they be requested sparingly.

If our [hostname management system](http://pony.scripts.mit.edu/)
doesn’t work for some reason, you can also request a hostname by
e-mailing scripts@mit.edu. Please include the name you would like, and
the directory you would like the host to point to (e.g.,
group.scripts.mit.edu or group.scripts.mit.edu/wiki/).
