[[!meta title="Is Java supported?"]]
Short answer: **No**.

There are two aspects to this question: general Java programs (short
answer: we try) and Java Servlets (short answer: we’d like to).

General Java programs
---------------------

We try to allow running Java programs on Scripts (such as cron jobs or
CGI programs). However, keeping Java programs working requires ongoing
work from the maintainers and the maintainers don’t use Java and
therefore often won’t notice when it breaks. Consequently, we recommend
[picking a better-supported
language](/faq/152/what-language-should-i-write-my-program-in) (such as
Python) if you have a choice.

The issue with Java programs is that by default Java will attempt to
allocate a large fraction of the system’s memory when it starts up. On
most systems this is fine, because the operating system will not reserve
the memory until Java writes to it, rather than merely allocates it.
However, to ensure that Scripts remains responsive for our many users,
we [limit](/faq/34/) how much memory a single process can allocate
(unfortunately, Linux does not allow limiting how much memory a process
can use, except by limiting the amount a process can allocate). We
attempt to configure Java and these memory limits such that Java can run
within them, but sometimes part of this configuration breaks without our
noticing.

Java Servlets
-------------

We do not currently support running Java Servlets. We would like to, and
would welcome [SIPB prospectives](http://sipb.mit.edu/join/) interested
in adding support, but expect that it would take significant work.
