[[!meta title="Can I ssh to scripts.mit.edu to test my scripts?"]]
Yes, although you must [sign up](/web) for at least one of the script
services before you can connect. You can SSH to scripts.mit.edu from any
computer supporting Kerberized SSH, which includes all Athena
workstation or dialups. From Athena, you can use the following command:

athena% **ssh -k scripts**

If you want to log in to access a locker other than your own, you should
log in with your locker name specified as the “username” for the login:

athena% **ssh -k LOCKERNAME@scripts**

(with LOCKERNAME replaced by the name of your locker)

If you’re trying to log into scripts.mit.edu from home and you don’t
have an SSH client on your computer, you can log into
athena.dialup.mit.edu from
[http://athena.dialup.mit.edu/](http://athena.dialup.mit.edu/), and log
into scripts from there.

You can also log in directly from most personal computers if you install
a Kerberized SSH client. Other authentication mechanisms (such as direct
password-based logins) are not supported for security reasons.

Windows
-------

To connect to scripts.mit.edu from a Windows computer, install MIT
SecureCRT **and Kerberos For Windows** from
[http://web.mit.edu/software/win.html](http://web.mit.edu/software/win.html).

Then, open MIT SecureCRT (from the Start menu). Click the “Quick
Connect” button in the toolbar of the Sessions dialog box that appears
(the second button from the left). Fill out the dialog that appears, as
follows:

Protocol: **SSH2**\
 Hostname: **scripts.mit.edu**\
 Port: **22**\
 Firewall: **None**\
 Username: [your Athena user name, or locker name]

In the “Authentication” selectbox, scroll down and click on **GSSAPI**
to highlight it. Make sure that the checkbox beside it is checked. Then,
use the black arrows to the right of the box to move “GSSAPI” to the top
of the list of Authentication methods.

Then, click **Connect** to connect to scripts.mit.edu. If you are
prompted for a username and password, please make sure you installed
Kerberos for Windows and selected GSSAPI; you **cannot** log in to
scripts.mit.edu with a username and password.

From a Mac
----------

To connect to scripts.mit.edu from a Mac, download and install the MIT
Kerberos Extras from
[http://web.mit.edu/software/mac.html](http://web.mit.edu/software/mac.html).
Then, open “Terminal” (in /Applications/Utilities/), and type:

    kinit AthenaUsername
    ssh -k LockerName@scripts.mit.edu

The “-k” flag to ssh doesn’t exist for older MacOS X versions. For these
versions and with Apple’s default ssh configuration, it is safe to not
use this flag. If you have customized your ssh configuration, make sure
you have “GSSAPIAuthentication yes” and “GSSAPIDelegateCredentials no”
set for scripts.mit.edu.

From Linux or other UNIX
------------------------

To connect from a Linux (or other UNIX) computer, install ssh and
Kerberos, and set up Kerberos to use the ATHENA.MIT.EDU realm. Many
Linux distributions provide packages that can do this for you. (If you
are using Debian or Ubuntu, you may want to consider using
[Debathena](http://debathena.mit.edu/), which will allow you to access
many Athena services from your own computer.) Then, run the two Mac
command-line commands listed above.
