[[!meta title="How do I make a file accessible to Apache? (I'm getting a 403 Forbidden error)"]]
To mark a single file accessible to Apache
------------------------------------------

You can run

    chmod 777 FILENAME

to make a single file named FILENAME accessible to the Apache web
server.

To mark an entire directory world-readable
------------------------------------------

If you want to make an entire directory world-readable, you can change
its AFS access control list in order to do so. You can do so by “cd”-ing
to the directory and then running

    fs sa . system:anyuser read

(You should run these commands on an Athena workstation or dialup,
instead of directly on the scripts servers.)

It may take some time for Scripts to pick up the permission changes; you
can speed up the process by running

    athrun scripts for-each-server fs flushv

If you would like to make programs that are normally executable
downloadable by the user, you will also need to create a .htaccess file
containing the following:

\<Files \*\>\
 SetHandler none\
 \</Files\>

This instructs Apache to pass the files through directly, rather than
attempting to interpret them as code.

Technical Information
---------------------

The file system on Athena (AFS) usually ignores chmod modes, but
scripts.mit.edu normally restricts AFS access to a home directory to the
owner of that home directory. However, the special mode 777 has special
meaning on scripts.mit.edu (we run a modified AFS client), and indicates
that the Apache web server may directly access the file. No other chmod
modes will have the same effect.

This is usually not needed for actual scripts or even most static
content (such as .html files), since those files are accessed via your
user account. It was previously needed for .htaccess files, but now (as
of June 2009) Apache is given implicit read permission on all files
whose names begin with “.ht”, such as .htaccess and .htpasswd.
