[[!meta title="Why isn't the 'add' command working?"]]
There are two cases where you can run into this problem: either on
Athena, while signing up, or on scripts.mit.edu itself.

#### The command “add scripts” gives an error

The **add** command is a standard Athena command to manage lockers. If
you’re having trouble getting **add scripts** to work, check the
following:

-   Make sure you’re on a standard Athena Linux or Athena Solaris
    computer connected to the network, either a workstation (e.g., in
    the clusters), or a dialup such as
    [athena.dialup.mit.edu](http://athena.dialup.mit.edu).
-   If the prompt does not start with **athena%** or **athena\$**, try
    opening a new terminal with the “Prompt” button, or try a different
    workstation.
-   If you get the error “add: Command not found,” you’re probably
    missing the login settings files (“dotfiles”), which set up the add
    command. Try the following:
    1.  If you’re on a cluster machine (not a dialup), log out, click
        “Login Options”, select “Ignore customizations”, and then log
        in. This should attempt to avoid customized dotfiles.\
    2.  If this still doesn’t work, you’re probably missing your
        dotfiles entirely. Check that the files .login and .cshrc are
        present in your home directory. (These are hidden files, so you
        will have to use **ls -a** to list them.) If they aren’t there,
        copy them (as well as any other missing dotfiles) with the
        command

            cp /usr/prototype_user/.* ~

        Then log out and back in.

If you’ve determined you’re missing your dotfiles and you’re having
trouble restoring them, you can ask
[IS&T](http://web.mit.edu/consult/www/) for help.

#### Adding a locker from a script doesn’t work

scripts.mit.edu doesn’t support the add command, because it’s difficult
to make it work correctly outside of the shell. As a replacement,
however, the /mit directory is *automounted*, so using a file in
/mit/*lockername* implicitly attaches the locker. This way, you can run
software in lockers by giving its full path, e.g. /mit/moira/bin/blanche
for the blanche client.

(The full path of locker software is generally
/mit/*locker*/bin/*program* or /mit/*locker*/arch/@sys/bin/*program*. If
you’re having trouble, add the locker on Athena and run **type
*program*** or **which *program***.
