[[!meta title="Outage information - Saturday, Jan. 5, 2008"]]
Last updated: Jan. 5, 4:40 PM

Between the hours of 10 PM to 3 AM this Saturday night, the scripts
servers will be moved to a new UPS and network connection. This should
not cause a noticeable disruption in the web scripts or mail scripts
service. There may be a brief disruption of the SQL service as it is
moved. (If you see a website that reports that it cannot connect to the
database, try reloading the page in a few seconds.) All services run on
redundant servers for reliability, so it is expected that we will be
able to avoid interrupting the services while we complete the move.
However, in the event of an unforeseen failure, there may be a longer
outage (15 minutes or more) for the duration of the move.

Updates to service status will be posted on IS&T’s [3down
website](http://3down.mit.edu/). Messages will also be sent to zephyr
instance “consult”. (To subscribe to this instance, type **zctl sub
message consult \\\*** on Athena. You may need to run **zwgc -ttymode**
first, if you are logged in remotely.)

The scripts.mit.edu services have been designed with reliability in
mind, and we are taking extra technical measures to reduce and hopefully
eliminate downtime related to Saturday night’s move. However, we are not
in a position to make service guarantees, and scripts should not be used
to run critical applications that cannot tolerate downtime. (Recall that
every Sunday morning at 6 am, there is a 10-minute outage for sites from
the athena.mit.edu AFS cell when the AFS servers restart.)

Service announcements are sent in advance to the
[scripts-announce](http://mailman.mit.edu/mailman/listinfo/scripts-announce)
mailing list, a low-traffic Mailman list open to the public. (The list
receives less than one message per month on average.)

— The SIPB scripts.mit.edu team\
 [scripts@mit.edu](mailto:scripts@mit.edu)
