[[!meta title="Can I serve Subversion or Git repositories on scripts.mit.edu?"]]
Yes, scripts supports virtual hosting for Subversion and Git
repositories.

git autoinstaller
-----------------

For git, we now provide an autoinstaller that will create a git
repository and set it up for access using git’s smart HTTP transport,
the git daemon (read-only), ssh (for locker administrators only), or
standard filesystem access. To use the autoinstaller:

    athena% add scripts
    athena% scripts-git

To configure write access to your repository, edit the .htaccess file in
the \~/web\_scripts/repo folder that was setup. For example, you can
[setup client
auth](http://scripts.mit.edu/faq/146/how-can-i-avoid-typing-my-password-repeatedly-when-using-git-with-the-smart-http-transport)
or you can restrict both read/write access by moving the access control
lines outside of the \<Files\> block.

Manual setup for Subversion or git
----------------------------------

If you want to use Subversion or set up git by hand, the process is more
involved.

Create a folder named \~/Scripts/git or \~/Scripts/svn:

    athena% add scripts
    athena% signup-minimal
    athena% mkdir -p ~/Scripts/git
    athena% mkdir -p ~/Scripts/svn

Then either place your repository in that directory or create a symbolic
link to your repository:

    athena% ln -s ~/cool-repo.git ~/Scripts/git/

Make sure that your repository is [readable by scripts](/faq/49),
including all its subdirectories. For example, run:

    athena% add consult
    athena% fsr sa ~/Scripts/svn/repository/ daemon.scripts read

If you are using git, you need to make sure that your repository is
marked as exportable:

    athena% touch ~/Scripts/git/cool-repo.git/git-daemon-export-ok

Users can checkout the repository using:

    git clone git://lockername.scripts.mit.edu/cool-repo.git
    svn co svn://lockername.scripts.mit.edu/repo

scripts currently doesn’t support pushing via the git protocol. The
smart HTTP transport will work, though to use that you should read git’s
documentation or use our autoinstaller (described above). Subversion
does support unencrypted commits, which you can configure with the files
in the `conf/` subdirectory of your repository. For this to work,
scripts must also have write access to your repository, e.g.:

    athena% athrun consult fsr sa ~/Scripts/svn/repository/ daemon.scripts write

You will also need to enable password authentication by removing the \#
from the start of the “password-db = passwd” line in
`~/Scripts/svn/repository/conf/svnserve.conf`, and by adding passwords
to `~/Scripts/svn/repository/conf/passwd`.
