[[!meta title="New features on scripts.mit.edu"]]
If you develop websites on scripts.mit.edu, we thought you might like to
hear about some of the new little features we’ve quietly developed over
the last year.

-   You can now access your website from **yourname.scripts.mit.edu**
    instead of http://scripts.mit.edu/\~yourname. The new URLs are
    easier to type and more secure against cross-site scripting attacks.
    On https://yourname.scripts.mit.edu, current web browsers
    (supporting
    [SNI](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Server_Name_Indication)) will
    receive a valid SSL certificate for \*.scripts.mit.edu. This also
    works for group lockers.
-   Setting up **certificate authentication** on scripts is easier than
    ever. Just [add three lines to your .htaccess file](/faq/15), and
    your visitors will be automatically redirected to port 444, which
    accepts optional client certificates. Visitors without certificates
    will be shown a friendly error page (which you can customize if you
    want). You can restrict access by user, AFS group, or other standard
    Apache authorization modules.
-   A new Apache module supports **optional authentication**. If you
    add\

        AuthSSLCertAuthoritative off
        AuthOptional on

    to your .htaccess file, then the Apache authorization process will
    be bypassed, so that your script can perform authorization itself,
    and treat authenticated users differently from anonymous users
    (which will have the `REMOTE_USER` variable unset).

-   You can now install **Python modules** into your locker using
    `easy_install --user` from the scripts servers, and they will be
    automatically accessible to Python scripts in your locker.
-   nelhage has made the **Jifty web framework** for Perl available in
    the [jifty locker](http://jifty.scripts.mit.edu/) for
    scripts.mit.edu as well as Athena and Debathena.

