[[!meta title="CGI scripts will soon require the executable bit"]]
If you write custom scripts on scripts.mit.edu, you will need to be
aware of an important new requirement: we will soon require the **UNIX
executable bit** to be set on your scripts. This affects scripts written
in any language other than PHP. This is a standard requirement on UNIX
systems, but due to a technical quirk of the original scripts.mit.edu
design, it has not been enforced on scripts.mit.edu up to this point.
Therefore, you may need to adjust the executable bit on some of your
scripts.

We currently plan to implement this change on Saturday, Nov. 8, 2008.

What you need to do
-------------------

Make sure that the executable bit is set on any script that will be run
on the scripts.mit.edu servers. You can check this on Athena, using a
command similar to the following:

    athena% ls -l /mit/andersk/web_scripts
    -rwxr-xr-x  1    39270 anders     115 2008-03-14 19:11 test.cgi
    -rw-r--r--  1    39270 anders      79 2008-04-23 22:22 test2.cgi

The bit to look for is the ‘`x`’ in the fourth column. In this example,
`test.cgi` has the executable bit set, and `test2.cgi` does not. You can
fix `test2.cgi` as follows:

    athena% chmod +x /mit/andersk/web_scripts/test2.cgi
    athena% ls -l /mit/andersk/web_scripts
    -rwxr-xr-x  1    39270 anders     115 2008-03-14 19:11 test.cgi
    -rwxr-xr-x  1    39270 anders      79 2008-04-23 22:22 test2.cgi

Version control
---------------

If your custom script is in a version control repository, you may
additionally want to ensure that this change to the executable bit is
recorded in the repository.

-   For Subversion, run

        svn propset svn:executable ON file.cgi

    and then make a commit.

-   For CVS, make a forced commit by running:

        cvs commit -f -m "" file.cgi

-   Git will automatically detect the change when you `git add` the
    file.

Technical details
-----------------

In the original scripts.mit.edu design of 2004, the AFS kernel module
was modified so that the scripts.mit.edu servers would see every file as
having the executable bit turned on. This was necessary because every
page—including static content pages like HTML files and JPG images—was
executed as a CGI script, using the Linux binfmt mechanism. It soon
became clear that this mechanism had a fundamental security problem, so
it was redesigned, but the AFS patch was kept for backwards
compatibility.

However, the nonstandard semantics of the executable bit have been
increasingly interfering with certain applications on scripts.mit.edu,
such as the popular Git revision control system. We have therefore
decided to disable it after a short transitional period.

We are collecting logs of scripts that are being executed without a
proper executable bit, and we will contact the owners of any affected
scripts that we find. If your custom scripts are infrequently accessed,
you may need to test them yourself using the directions above.
