[[!meta title="scripts.mit.edu Fedora 13 transition"]]
On Sunday, September 26, 2010, all of the scripts.mit.edu servers will
be upgraded from [Fedora 11](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Releases/11)
to [Fedora 13](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Releases/13) , which was
released on May 25. We strongly encourage you to test your website as
soon as possible, and to contact us at
[scripts@mit.edu](mailto:scripts@mit.edu) if you experience any
problems. The easiest way to test your site is to run the following
commands at an Athena workstation and then visit your website in the
browser that opens, but see below for more details:

    athena% add scripts
    athena% firefox-test 

### Why are we upgrading?

Keeping the scripts.mit.edu servers secure is one of the most important
things that the team works on. This includes not only careful design and
review of the custom software that we run, but keeping up to date with
security patches for Fedora, which is the distribution of Linux that we
run. Fedora’s security support for Fedora 11 has already ended, and
while we have been manually backporting security fixes during this
period of time, we will be upgrading to Fedora 13 to receive official
security support for approximately another year.

### Will I need to do anything to my website?

We expect that for the vast majority of our users, the upgrade will be
very smooth, your applications will work with no changes, and you won’t
have to do anything. However, we strongly encourage you to test your
website as soon as possible. Also, check the list of known issues to see
if you are likely to experience any problems we’re already aware of. In
particular, it is very important that you test your site soon if you
rely on PHP 5.2, as Fedora 13 now ships with PHP 5.3.

### How will the upgrade work?

Sometime on Sunday, September 26, three scripts.mit.edu servers running
Fedora 13 will be added to the load-balancing pool, and simultaneously
the five current Fedora 11 servers will be removed from the pool. Over
the course of the next few days, additional Fedora 13 servers will be
set up and made available.

### Will there be a service outage?

We do not expect there to be any service outage. Our plan is to
simultaneously add three Fedora 13 servers to the load-balancing pool
and remove the Fedora 11 servers. If your website and scripts work with
our Fedora 13 testing server, they should work and be available to your
visitors continuously throughout this process.

### How do I test my website?

There are several options available to you.

**Note: If you are running an application that asks you to upgrade it
when you use our testing server, do not perform the upgrade until
September 26.** If you do, your site will most likely work on the
testing server, but no longer work on the production Fedora 11 servers.
If you do perform an upgrade, you will most likely have to restore a
backup of your database and/or application. If you wish to test your
application sooner, you may wish to make a new copy of it that uses a
different database.

#### Athena workstation

On any Athena workstation, you can log in and run these commands (make
sure you do not have a web browser open first):

    athena% add scripts
    athena% firefox-test

This will start Firefox for you with special configuration that ensures
that any website you visit that’s hosted on scripts will be retrieved
from our test server. You can then try using all the features of your
website just as you ordinarily would. Note that this will be using your
real website; it is not a separate copy of your site.

This configuration will only be used while you have that copy of Firefox
open. If you close it and run Firefox normally, you will no longer be
using our test server.

#### Manual URL change

If you currently use a URL like

    http://scripts.mit.edu/~yourLockerName/siteName

and it does not do any fancy redirection or mangling of the URL, then
you can simply visit

    http://scripts-test.mit.edu/~yourLockerName/siteName

instead. Note: Several web applications, including WordPress, change the
URL on you – once you click any link from the front page of a WordPress
installation, you will no longer be using the test server. If you have
such an application, you will need to use one of the other testing
methods.

#### SIPB Office

If you visit the SIPB office (W20-557), there are a few specially
labelled workstations there which always use the scripts testing server.
You do not need to do any special configuration to test your site on
these machines. Feel free to come by SIPB any time we’re open (the
office doesn’t have fixed hours, but is open most afternoons and
evenings; feel free to call 617-253-7788 to check if we’re open before
coming over) and test your site on these machines.

#### Advanced

If you use Linux, or a similar operating system, and are comfortable
with system administration tasks, you can temporarily configure your
system to use our testing server by adding a line to your /etc/hosts
file that maps the hostname your website uses to the IP address
18.181.0.229. Note that your website might use any of these hostnames:

    scripts.mit.edu, scripts-cert.mit.edu, yourLockerName.scripts.mit.edu

or something like customname.mit.edu. Be sure that the line you add to
your /etc/hosts uses the correct name, and be sure that you remove that
line when you are done testing. If you are on a Windows system, the
analogous file is

    C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc\hosts

### May I ssh into the test server?

Yes, anyone with a scripts account may ssh to `whole-enchilada.mit.edu`
(we don’t have `scripts-test.mit.edu` working quite yet), just as you
ordinarily would ssh to scripts.mit.edu, if you would like to use a
shell.

### What are the known issues at this time?

Please check [our wiki page](http://scripts.mit.edu/wiki/Fedora_13) .

### How can I stay up to date on news about Scripts?

News about scripts.mit.edu is posted to our blog periodically. Important
announcements are e-mailed to the [scripts-announce mailing
list](http://mailman.mit.edu/mailman/listinfo/scripts-announce). If
you’re not already signed up for the list, please take a moment to do so
by clicking the link above.
