[[!meta title="scripts.mit.edu Fedora 17 transition"]]
Keeping the scripts.mit.edu servers secure is one of the most important
things that the team works on. This includes not only careful design and
review of the custom software that we run, but keeping up to date with
security patches for Fedora, which is the distribution of Linux that we
run. Fedora’s security support for Fedora 15 will be ending soon, so we
will be upgrading to Fedora 17 to receive official security support for
approximately another year.

The actual transition is scheduled for the Fedora 15 end-of-life, which
is on June 26th.

### Will I need to do anything to my website?

We expect that for the vast majority of our users, the upgrade will be
very smooth, your applications will work with no changes, and you won’t
have to do anything. However, we strongly encourage you to test your
website as soon as possible. Also, check the list of known issues to see
if you are likely to experience any problems we’re already aware of. In
particular, the system installations of Trac, Rails and TurboGears have
had upstream upgrades that are somewhat backwards incompatible.

### Will there be a service outage?

We do not expect there to be any service outage. Our plan is to
simultaneously add the Fedora 17 servers to the load-balancing pool and
then remove the Fedora 15 servers. If your website and scripts work with
our Fedora 17 testing server, they should work and be available to your
visitors continuously throughout this process.

### How do I test my website?

There are several options available to you.

**Note: If you are running an application that asks you to upgrade it
when you use our testing server, do not perform the upgrade until the
official roll-over.** If you do, your site will most likely work on the
testing server, but no longer work on the production Fedora 15 servers.
If you do perform an upgrade, you will most likely have to restore a
backup of your database and/or application. If you wish to test your
application sooner, you may wish to make a new copy of it that uses a
different database.

#### Athena workstation

On any Athena workstation, you can log in and run these commands (make
sure you do not have a web browser open first):

    athena% add scripts
    athena% firefox-test

This will start Firefox for you with special configuration that ensures
that any website you visit that’s hosted on scripts will be retrieved
from our test server. You can then try using all the features of your
website just as you ordinarily would. Note that this will be using your
real website; it is not a separate copy of your site.

This configuration will only be used while you have that copy of Firefox
open. If you close it and run Firefox normally, you will no longer be
using our test server.

#### SIPB Office

If you visit the SIPB office (W20-557), there are a few specially
labelled workstations there which always use the scripts testing server.
You do not need to do any special configuration to test your site on
these machines. Feel free to come by SIPB any time we’re open (the
office doesn’t have fixed hours, but is open most afternoons and
evenings; feel free to call 617-253-7788 to check if we’re open before
coming over) and test your site on these machines.

#### Advanced

If you use Linux, or a similar operating system, and are comfortable
with system administration tasks, you can temporarily configure your
system to use our testing server by adding a line to your /etc/hosts
file that maps the hostname your website uses to the IP address
18.181.0.229. Note that your website might use any of these hostnames:

    scripts.mit.edu, scripts-cert.mit.edu, yourLockerName.scripts.mit.edu

or something like customname.mit.edu. Be sure that the line you add to
your /etc/hosts uses the correct name, and be sure that you remove that
line when you are done testing. If you are on a Windows system, the
analogous file is

    C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc\hosts

### May I ssh into the test server?

Yes, anyone with a scripts account may ssh to `scripts-test.mit.edu`,
just as you ordinarily would ssh to scripts.mit.edu, if you would like
to use a shell.

### What are the known issues at this time?

Please check [our wiki page](http://scripts.mit.edu/wiki/Fedora_17) .

### How can I stay up to date on news about Scripts?

News about scripts.mit.edu is posted to our blog periodically. Important
announcements are e-mailed to the [scripts-announce mailing
list](http://mailman.mit.edu/mailman/listinfo/scripts-announce). If
you’re not already signed up for the list, please take a moment to do so
by clicking the link above.
